This phase of the project will be about data exploration. Knowing your data is one of the most
vital components of your data analytics solution. We do not want oversimplified solutions, but
we also do not want complex, unfeasible ones. Therefore, try to confine the number of
descriptive features to 20 in this project. You can have more, if they are important; however, you
do not need to. If your proposal includes different data modalities (e.g., time series, images,
graphs, documents etc.), you will again need to explore the characteristics of your data. In such
cases, please consult with me.
In this phase, you will explore the data, understand the characteristics of your attributes, identify
missing values and outliers (then handle them accordingly), normalize your data (if necessary),
and apply transformations (such as binning, mapping, aggregations, flags, etc.) and [optional]
feature selection. After exploration, you will create your base table (the dataset that you will use
for the learning models). This is of course if you are using tabular data. If you want to use other
modalities, please make sure you follow the necessary preprocessing steps.
At the end of Phase 2, you are expected to generate a data quality report and a data quality plan.
Provide explanations for how you perform the data pre-processing steps (handling outliers and
missing values, selecting features, normalizations, transformations) and create your machine
learning-ready dataset (analytics base table) for the next phase. You will then submit a progress
report outlining the work you performed in the first two phases (a template will be provided).
You will also submit your dataset before and after transformations.


Project Progress Report & Original and Pre-processed Dataset [2+2 points]: You will
submit your project progress report along with the original dataset that you have collected for
your business objective. Additionally, you will submit your preprocessed and cleaned analytics
base table or dataset. Please compress them with zip.
The progress report must be in PDF format and named [GROUP_NAME]_final_report.pdf.
The raw dataset should be named [LAST_NAME]_original.zip
The pre-processed data should be named [LAST_NAME]_pp.zip
In case these files are large, please share these files online (either through your own
OneDrive/Google Drive or through public sharing services such as Zenodo or figshare). Your
project will not be considered for grading without a dataset.
Deadline: March 22, 2024


Need:
0. set up venv and fix github issues
1. Label features with data type, data scale, description
2. Missing values
3. Outliers
4. Normalize data if necessary
5. Visualize the data
6. Handle outliers and missing values 

7. Write out any discoveries 
8. Choose the model we will be using (list 2)

9. He will upload progress report as an example

In this phase, you will explore the data, understand the characteristics of your attributes, identify
missing values and outliers (then handle them accordingly), normalize your data (if necessary),
and apply transformations (such as binning, mapping, aggregations, flags, etc.) and [optional]
feature selection.